Subsets and Supersets


In set theory, a subset is a set where all its elements are contained within another set. Conversely, a superset is a set that contains all the elements of another set.

Checking for a subset (<= or issubset()):

set1 = {1, 2}
set2 = {1, 2, 3}
is_subset = set1 <= set2
print(is_subset)
# Output: True
In this example, set1 is a subset of set2 because all elements of set1 are also in set2.

Checking for a proper subset (<):

set1 = {1, 2}
set2 = {1, 2, 3}
is_proper_subset = set1 < set2
print(is_proper_subset)
# Output: True
Here, set1 is a proper subset of set2 because set1 is a subset of set2, and set2 contains at least one element not in set1.

Checking for a superset (>= or issuperset()):

set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {1, 2}
is_superset = set1 >= set2
print(is_superset)
# Output: True
In this case, set1 is a superset of set2 because set1 contains all elements of set2.

Checking for a proper superset (>):

set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {1, 2}
is_proper_superset = set1 > set2
print(is_proper_superset)
# Output: True
Here, set1 is a proper superset of set2 because set1 is a superset of set2, and set1 contains at least one element not in set2.


Challenge

Easy
Create a function named check_sets that takes two sets, set1 and set2, as arguments. The function should perform the following operations:

Check if set1 is a subset of set2.
Check if set2 is a superset of set1.
Check if set1 is a proper subset of set2.
Check if set2 is a proper superset of set1.
Return a dictionary containing the results of these operations, with the keys "is_subset", "is_superset", "is_proper_subset", and "is_proper_superset".


Quiz
2 Questions

Given set A = {apple, banana, cherry} and set B = {apple, banana, cherry, date}, which of the following statements is true?
1. Wrong Answer
B is a proper subset of A

2. Wrong Answer
A and B are equal sets

3. Wrong Answer
A is a proper superset of B

4. Correct Anwser 
A is a proper subset of B

Consider set P = {1, 2, 3, 4} and set Q = {1, 2, 3, 4}. Which statement accurately describes their relationship?

1. Correct Anwser 
P is a subset of Q, but not a proper subset

2. Wrong Answer
P and Q are disjoint sets

3. Wrong Answer
Q is a proper superset of P

4. Wrong Answer
P is a proper subset of Q
