If - Else


if allows us to execute particular code if a condition is met, but what if we want to execute something else if the condition is not met?

For that we have the else statement:

age = 15
status = "None"
if age >= 18:
    status = "Adult"
else:
    status = "Young"
In the above example, age is smaller than 18 which means it enter the else code and status will hold "Young".

We can even make it more profound using the elif statement:

age = 68
status = "None"
if age < 18:
    status = "Young"
elif age >= 18 and age <= 65:
    status = "Adult"
else:
    status = "Old"
Here it checks whether age is smaller than 18, if not it will continue to the next condition and check whether age is between 18 and 65. If that condition is also not met it will set status to "Old".

We can add as many elif statements as we want:

if condition1:
    code
elif condition2:
    code
elif condition3:
    code
...
Note that the code inside the if/elif/else must be indented

Challenge

Beginner
You are given a code which gets as input a number that indicates the wind speed and stores it in a variable named wind.

Note: we will learn in next lessons how to get input from the user, currently just don't touch the first line.

 

Your task is to initialize variable status based on the conditions:

"Calm" if wind is smaller than 8,
"Breeze" if wind is between 8 and 31 (including 8 and 31).
"Gale" if wind is between 32 and 63 (including 32 and 63)
"Storm" otherwise

Quiz

1 Question
What will be the value of status if age is 20 according to the provided Python code?

age = 20
status = "None"
if age < 18:
    status = "Young"
elif age >= 18 and age <= 65:
    status = "Adult"
else:
    status = "Old"
1. Wrong Answer
Old

2. Wrong Answer
None

3. Correct Answer
Adult

4. Wrong Answer
Young
